Update deploy and run BBG for 1.2 release (#296)
ballerina-platform/ballerina-dev-website: v1-2/learn/how-to-deploy-and-run-ballerina-programs.md

##### Supported Docker Annotations

**@docker:Config{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services, listeners or functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services, listeners, or functions.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|name|Name of the Docker image|File name of the generated .jar file|

> |registry|Docker registry url|None|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|registry|Docker registry URL|None|

```

|tag|Docker image tag|latest|

> |env|Environment variables for Docker image|None|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|env|Environment variables of the Docker image|None|

```

> |username|Username for Docker registry|None|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|username|Username for the Docker registry|None|

```

> |password|Password for Docker registry|None|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|password|Password for the Docker registry|None|

```

|baseImage|Base image to create the Docker image|ballerina/jre8:v1|

> |buildImage|Enable building Docker image|true|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|buildImage|Enable building the Docker image|true|

```

> |push|Enable pushing Docker image to registry|false|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|push|Enable pushing the Docker image to the registry|false|

```

> |enableDebug|Enable debug for ballerina|false|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|enableDebug|Enable debugging for Ballerina|false|

```

|debugPort|Remote debug port|5005|
|dockerAPIVersion|Docker API Version|None|

> |dockerHost|Docker host IP and docker PORT. ( e.g minikube IP and docker PORT)|DOCKER_HOST environment variable. If DOCKER_HOST is unavailable, uses "unix:///var/run/docker.sock" for Unix or uses "tcp://localhost:2375" for Windows|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|dockerHost|Docker host IP and Docker PORT. ( e.g., Minikube IP and Docker PORT)|DOCKER_HOST environment variable. If `DOCKER_HOST` is unavailable, use "unix:///var/run/docker.sock" for Unix or use "tcp://localhost:2375" for Windows|

```

|dockerCertPath|Docker certificate path|"DOCKER_CERT_PATH" environment variable|

**@docker:CopyFiles{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services, listeners or functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services, listeners, or functions.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|sourceFile|Source path of the file (in your machine)|None|
|target|Target path (inside container)|None|

> |isBallerinaConf|Flag whether file is a ballerina config file|false|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|isBallerinaConf|Flag whether the file is a Ballerina config file or not|false|

```

**@docker:Expose{}**

> - Supported with ballerina listeners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina listeners.

```

The Kubernetes builder extension offers native support for running Ballerina programs on Kubernetes with the use of annotations that you can include as part of your service code. Also, it will take care of the creation of the Docker images, so you don't need to explicitly create Docker images prior to deployment on Kubernetes.

The following Kubernetes configurations are supported:

> - Kubernetes deployment support. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes deployment support

```
We don't need periods for bullet points with phrases.

> - Kubernetes service support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes service support

```

- Kubernetes liveness probe support
- Kubernetes readiness probe support

> - Kubernetes ingress support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes ingress support

```

> - Kubernetes horizontal pod autoscaler support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes horizontal pod autoscaler support

```

> - Docker image generation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker image generation

```

> - Docker push support with remote docker registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Docker push support with remote Docker registry

```

> - Kubernetes secret support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes secret support

```

> - Kubernetes config map support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes config map support

```

> - Kubernetes persistent volume claim support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes persistent volume claim support

```

> - Kubernetes resource quotas.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes resource quotas

```

> - Istio gateways support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Istio gateways support

```

> - Istio virtual services support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Istio virtual services support

```

> - OpenShift build config and image stream support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OpenShift build config and image stream support

```

> - OpenShift route support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- OpenShift route support

```

}
@kubernetes:Deployment {
    image: "ballerina.guides.io/user_retrieval_service:v1.0",
    name: "ballerina-guides-user-retrieval-service"
}
@http:ServiceConfig {
    basePath: "/users"
}
service userRetrievalService on userRetrievalEP {
    @http:ResourceConfig {
        methods: ["GET"],
        path: "/{userId}"
    }
    resource function getUserInfo(http:Caller caller, http:Request request, string userId) {
        string name = config:getAsString(string `${<@untainted>userId}.name`);
        string email = config:getAsString(string `${<@untainted>userId}.email`);

        // check if user exists
        json payload = { message: "user not found" };
        if (name != "" && email != "") {
            payload = { 
                name: name, 
                email: email
            };
        }

        var responseResult = caller->respond(payload);
        if (responseResult is error) {
            log:printError("error responding back to client.", responseResult);
        }
    }
}
```

Sample content of `service-config.toml`:

```toml
keystore-password="ballerina"

[john]
name="John Doe"
email="john@ballerina.com"

[jane]
name="Jane Doe"
email="jane@ballerina.com"
```

> Here we have used `@kubernetes:Deployment` to specify the Docker image name that will be created as part of building this service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, `@kubernetes:Deployment` is used to specify the Docker image name, which will be created as part of building this service.

```

Now you can use the following command to build the Ballerina service that we developed above. This will also create the corresponding Docker image and the Kubernetes artifacts using the Kubernetes annotations that you have configured above.

```bash
$ ballerina build user_retrieval_service.bal
Compiling source
        user_retrieval_service.bal

Generating executables
        user_retrieval_service.jar

Generating artifacts...

        @kubernetes:Service                      - complete 1/1
        @kubernetes:Ingress                      - complete 1/1
        @kubernetes:Secret                       - complete 1/1
        @kubernetes:ConfigMap                    - complete 1/1
        @kubernetes:Deployment                   - complete 1/1
        @kubernetes:Docker                       - complete 2/2 
        @kubernetes:Helm                         - complete 1/1

        Run the following command to deploy the Kubernetes artifacts: 
        kubectl apply -f ./kubernetes

>         Run the following command to install the application using Helm: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        Execute the below command to install the application using Helm: 

```

Author: Since this is coming from the command, we will make this change in next release.

>         helm install --name ballerina-guides-user-retrieval-service ./kubernetes/ballerina-guides-user-retrieval-service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        helm install --name ballerina-guides-user-retrieval-service ./kubernetes/ballerina-guides-user-retrieval-service

```
Need to add formatting changes to display this as a command.

```

> You can use the `docker images` command to verify that the Docker image that we specified in `@kubernetes:Deployment` was created. The Kubernetes artifacts related to your service will be generated in addition to the `.jar` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `docker images` command to verify that the Docker image specified in the `@kubernetes:Deployment` was created. The Kubernetes artifacts related to your service will be generated in addition to the `.jar` file.

```

```bash
$ tree
├── service-config.toml
├── user_retrieval_service.bal
├── user_retrieval_service.jar
├── security
│   └── ballerinaKeystore.p12
├── docker
│   └── Dockerfile
├── kubernetes
│   ├── ballerina-guides-user-retrieval-service
│   │   ├── Chart.yaml
│   │   └── templates
│   │       └── user_retrieval_service.yaml
│   └── user_retrieval_service.yaml

```

> Now you can create the Kubernetes deployment using:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, you can create the Kubernetes deployment using:

```

kubectl patch deployments -n ingress-nginx nginx-ingress-controller -p '{"spec":{"template":{"spec":{"containers":[{"name":"nginx-ingress-controller","args":["\/nginx-ingress-controller","--configmap=$(POD_NAMESPACE)\/nginx-configuration","--tcp-services-configmap=$(POD_NAMESPACE)\/tcp-services","--udp-services-configmap=$(POD_NAMESPACE)\/udp-services","--publish-service=$(POD_NAMESPACE)\/ingress-nginx","--annotations-prefix=nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io","--annotations-prefix=nginx.ingress.kubernetes.io","--enable-ssl-passthrough"]}]}}}}'
```

Access the service:

```bash
$ curl -kv https://ballerina.guides.io/users/jane 
{"name":"Jane Doe", "email":"jane@ballerina.com"}
```   
    
##### Supported Kubernetes Annotations

**@kubernetes:Deployment{}**
- Supported with Ballerina services, listeners and functions.

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|name|Name of the deployment|<BALLERINA_FILE_NAME>-deployment or <BALLERINA_MODULE_NAME>-deployment|
|labels|Labels for deployment|{ app: <OUTPUT_FILE_NAME> }|
|annotations|Annotations for deployment|{}|

> |dockerHost|Docker host IP and docker PORT.(e.g "tcp://192.168.99.100:2376")|DOCKER_HOST environment variable. If DOCKER_HOST is unavailable, uses "unix:///var/run/docker.sock" for Unix or uses "npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine" for Windows 10 or uses "localhost:2375"|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|dockerHost|Docker host IP and Docker PORT.(e.g "tcp://192.168.99.100:2376")|DOCKER_HOST environment variable. If `DOCKER_HOST` is unavailable, use "unix:///var/run/docker.sock" for Unix or use "npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine" for Windows 10 or uses "localhost:2375"|

```

|dockerCertPath|Docker cert path|DOCKER_CERT_PATH environment variable|

> |registry|Docker registry url|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|registry|Docker registry URL|null|

```

> |username|Username for the docker registry|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|username|Username for the Docker registry|null|

```

> |password|Password for the docker registry|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|password|Password for the Docker registry|null|

```

> |baseImage|Base image to create the docker image|ballerina/jre8:v1|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|baseImage|Base image to create the Docker image|ballerina/jre8:v1|

```

> |image|Docker image with tag|<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest. If field `registry` is set then it will be prepended to the docker image name as <registry>/<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|image|Docker image with tag|<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest. If field `registry` is set ,then it will be prepended to the Docker image name as <registry>/<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest|

```

> |buildImage|Building docker image|true|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|buildImage|Building the Docker image|true|

```

> |push|Push docker image to registry. This will be effective if image buildImage field is true|false|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|push|Push the Docker image to registry. This will be effective if the `buildImage` field of the image is true|false|

```

> |copyFiles|Copy external files for Docker image|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|copyFiles|Copy external files of the Docker image|null|

```

> |singleYAML|Generate a single yaml file for all k8s resources|true|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|singleYAML|Generate a single YAML file for all K8s resources|true|

```

|namespace|Namespace of the deployment|null|
|replicas|Number of replicas|1|
|livenessProbe|Enable or disable liveness probe|false|
|readinessProbe|Enable or disable readiness probe|false|
|imagePullPolicy|Docker image pull policy|IfNotPresent|
|env|List of environment variables|null|
|podAnnotations|Pod annotations|{}|
|podTolerations|Pod tolerations|{}|

> |buildExtension|Extension for building docker images and artifacts|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|buildExtension|Extension for building Docker images and artifacts|null|

```

> |dependsOn|Listeners this deployment Depends on|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|dependsOn|Listeners on which this deployment depends|null|

```

> |imagePullSecrets|Image pull secrets value|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|imagePullSecrets|Image pull secret's value|null|

```

|strategy|Update strategy|null|

**@kubernetes:Service{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services and listeners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services and listeners.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|name|Name of the Service|<BALLERINA_SERVICE_NAME>-service|
|labels|Labels for the service|{ app: <OUTPUT_FILE_NAME> }|
|portName|Name for the port|The protocol of the listener|

> |port|Service port|Port of the ballerina service|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|port|Service port|Port of the Ballerina service|

```

> |targetPort|Target pod(s) port|Port of the ballerina service|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|targetPort|Target pod(s) port|Port of the Ballerina service|

```

> |nodePort|NodePort to expose service|None|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|nodePort|NodePort to expose the service|None|

```

|sessionAffinity|Pod session affinity|None|
|serviceType|Service type of the service|ClusterIP|

**@kubernetes:Ingress{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services and listeners.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported wby Ballerina services and listeners.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|

> |name|Name of the Ingress|<BALLERINA_SERVICE_NAME>-ingress|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|name|Name of the ingress|<BALLERINA_SERVICE_NAME>-ingress|

```

|labels|Labels for the service|{ app: <OUTPUT_FILE_NAME> }|
|annotations|Map of additional annotations|null|
|hostname|Host name of the ingress|<BALLERINA_SERVICE_NAME>.com or <BALLERINA_SERVICE_LISTENER_NAME>.com|
|path|Resource path.|/|

> |targetPath|This will use for URL rewrite.|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|targetPath|This will use for rewriting the URL.|null|

```

|ingressClass|Ingress class|nginx|
|enableTLS|Enable ingress TLS|false|

**@kubernetes:HPA{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services and functions.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|name|Name of the Horizontal Pod Autoscaler|<BALLERINA_SERVICE_NAME>-hpa|
|labels|Labels for the service|{ app: <OUTPUT_FILE_NAME> }|
|annotations|Map of annotations|null|

> |minReplicas|Minimum number of replicas|Number of replicas in deployment|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|minReplicas|Minimum number of replicas|Number of replicas in the deployment|

```

|maxReplicas|Maximum number of replicas|minReplicas + 1|
|cpuPrecentage|CPU percentage to start scaling|50|

**@kubernetes:Secret{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina service and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services and functions.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|name|Name of the secret mount|<BALLERINA_SERVICE_NAME>-secret|
|labels|Labels for the service|{ app: <OUTPUT_FILE_NAME> }|
|annotations|Map of annotations|null|
|mountPath|Path to mount on container|null|
|readOnly|Is mount read only|true|
|data|Paths to data files|null|

**@kubernetes:ConfigMap{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services and functions.

```

|data|Paths to data files|null|

**@kubernetes:PersistentVolumeClaim{}**

> - Supported with Ballerina services and functions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Supported by Ballerina services and functions.

```

|**Annotation Name**|**Description**|**Default value**|
|--|--|--|
|name|Name of the job|<BALLERINA_FILE_NAME>-job or <BALLERINA_MODULE_NAME>-job|
|labels|Labels for the job|{ app: <OUTPUT_FILE_NAME> }|
|annotations|Metadata Annotations map|{}|

> |dockerHost|Docker host IP and docker PORT.(e.g "tcp://192.168.99.100:2376")|DOCKER_HOST environment variable. If DOCKER_HOST is unavailable, uses "unix:///var/run/docker.sock" for Unix or uses "npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine" for Windows 10 or uses "localhost:2375"|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|dockerHost|Docker host IP and Docker PORT.(e.g "tcp://192.168.99.100:2376")|DOCKER_HOST environment variable. If `DOCKER_HOST` is unavailable, use "unix:///var/run/docker.sock" for Unix or use "npipe:////./pipe/docker_engine" for Windows 10 or uses "localhost:2375"|

```

|dockerCertPath|Docker cert path|DOCKER_CERT_PATH environment variable|

> |registry|Docker registry url|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|registry|Docker registry URL|null|

```

> |username|Username for the docker registry|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|username|Username for the Docker registry|null|

```

> |password|Password for the docker registry|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|password|Password for the Docker registry|null|

```

> |baseImage|Base image to create the docker image|ballerina/jre8:v1|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|baseImage|Base image to create the Docker image|ballerina/jre8:v1|

```

> |image|Docker image with tag|<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest. If field `registry` is set then it will be prepended to the docker image name as <registry>/<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|image|Docker image with tag|<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest. If field `registry` is set, then it will be prepended to the Docker image name as <registry>/<OUTPUT_FILE_NAME>:latest|

```

> |buildImage|Building docker image|true|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|buildImage|Building the Docker image|true|

```

> |push|Push docker image to registry. This will be effective if image buildImage field is true|false|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|push|Push the Docker image to registry. This will be effective if the `buildImage field of the image is true|false|

```

> |copyFiles|Copy external files for Docker image|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|copyFiles|Copy external files for the Docker image|null|

```

> |singleYAML|Generate a single yaml file for all k8s resources|true|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|singleYAML|Generate a single YAML file for all K8s resources|true|

```

|namespace|Namespace for the Job|default|
|imagePullPolicy|Docker image pull policy|IfNotPresent|

> |env|List of environment variables|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|env|List of the environment variables|null|

```

|restartPolicy|Restart policy|Never|
|backoffLimit|Backoff limit|3|
|activeDeadlineSeconds|Active deadline seconds|20|

> |schedule|Schedule for cron jobs|none|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|schedule|Schedule for CRON jobs|none|

```

> |imagePullSecrets|Image pull secrets value|null|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|imagePullSecrets|Image pull secret's value|null|

```
